This is one of our beautiful moments to be together and exploring the teaching of the Buddha and
lineage masters and glorifying our connection to the Dharma and deepening our understanding of the
meaning of the Dharma and meaning of our lives.
We are truly blessed ones.
We follow the footsteps of these great masters in their honor, in their memories, in their presence
, and we continue to grow and glorify. It is wonderful. It is awesome. It is special. It is great.
I am very happy. I am honored. Again, be with you all, together, and then following the teachings
of the Buddha, and glorifying Mahasamma and other great masters, and as we connected today.
So, it is wonderful. Again, I would like to say welcome everyone. It is beautiful to be together
and following these teachings.
And then in this teaching, as you know, I am going to follow the teachings that are represented by
our great teacher, the Kain Ching Pad Nishara Rinpoche, and a beautiful booklet, a book known as "
Turning the Golden" or "Nain Yanas" or "Golden Chair of Nain Yanas".
And following that frame, in that context, in that understanding, then we follow the I follow the
teaching. So, that is what we are going to do.
And now, first, I would like to talk about, again, this is one of the beautiful times we talk about
and bring the understanding of the teachings.
Generally, you know, in Buddhism, Buddhism, what do you call? Three Vistas. Three Vistas.
Three Vistas are known as the wisdom that comes from the starting, and the wisdom that comes from
the contemplations or contemplating, and the wisdom that comes from meditation and practice.
There are three Vistas. These all we need three Vistas because, first time, we are saturated and
overloaded and stained by the obscurations and negativities.
These obscurations and negativities is a dark force. It's darknesses. It's blocking our every
directions and every of our movements.
And that's what we do always with presumptions, hope and hope and hope. That's what we talk.
Because we don't have intelligence, we don't have enough Vistas that to penetrate or dispel that
thoughts.
Therefore, these three Vistas are extremely important to guide our lives and lives of all the
beings.
Our vision and the goal of Buddhism, in particular Mahayana, to be one ourself, to be a good person
. At the same time, we like to make good to others, make meaningful of our lives.
We are not going to waste the dragging and spoil our practice this moment in the precious
opportunity that we are surrounded. We are kind of richest, richest of us.
And therefore, wisdom is so important. Therefore, to understand and explore these Vistas, what can
great Masters lay out?
All those great Masters practice. It's renowned in the Tibetan Buddhism, in particular the
practicing lineage.
Lineage is very renowned, known as "Hedra" and "Drupda". "Hedra" and "Drupda", that you all heard
that so many times.
"Hedra" means exploring the wisdom of the studying and the contemplations. The "Drupda" is
exploring the wisdom through the practice and the meditations.
So this is renowned. Two things. Learning all those different teachings. But when you come to the
practice, when I came to put that as our convenience, our usage, something like practical, that's
called these two things. "Hedra" and "Drupda".
"Drupda" we did. We did one-month retreat in Drupda, mainly focused on Drupda. Even though we
started learning, learning is mainly represented by the Drupda.
One-month retreat, two-week retreat in the past this July, or in July we did. It mainly focused on
Drupda.
What is the essence of the Drupda? The essence of the Drupda brings our self, the mind more gentle,
more peaceful, more happy, more contentment, more soft, tender heart, with filled with love and joy
and appreciation, respect and less grasping, less clinging and moving forward, not stuck with the
past, holding on the past all the time.
And moving forward with bright vision, keeping continuing moving forward with bright vision. This
is the essence of the Drupda. We did that.
This one-month retreat in the April and two-week retreat in the July, we did quite good. We all
feel something that we did, good things, to benefit to our side, to benefit to the other beings.
And today, this time, we're mainly focusing on Drupda. That's what we call Drupda. Drupda is the
essence of it.
That wisdom that comes from the study and wisdom that comes from the contemplators. So this time,
mainly we're going to focus, study and contemplate on that.
This contemplative study, what Buddha taught that you've heard so many times, is called Buddha gave
the teaching that you should put your input of the wisdom, intelligence.
Buddha used such beautiful examples as known as the goldsmith examining the authenticness of the
gold, rubbing, cutting and burning.
Those three ways that Buddha goldsmith examined the authenticness of the gold.
Similarly, then we study, we contemplate. Contemplating is, is then putting your input with that
wisdom what you learned and made meaningful.
Let that absorb in heart, not just let it sit in again another kind of record. Record and let it go
.
We're going to observe that what we learned in heart and then we're going to practice and meditate
and then bring the wisdom of the meditation and practices.
So therefore, this starting contemplation is the cheda. And the starting contemplation is putting
our own intelligence through the knowledge that we learned from the study, study and remember that.
And then if there's something kind of like has doubt, does it discuss? That's not called the
discussing. That's the contemplation part of that.
You can contemplate yourself, you can contemplate with others and they support mad sense, mad
meaning.
So this is the really meaning of the cheda.